Update How-to guides for plan and upgrade. (#322)
canonical/charmed-openstack-upgrader: docs/how-to/plan-upgrade.rst

The **plan** command is used to generate the upgrade plan; the result will be
printed on STDOUT.

Plan for the whole cloud
------------------------

> To generate a plan for **control-plane** and **data-plane** use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate a plan for the entire OpenStack cloud, including both the **control-plane** and the **data-plane**, use:
```

The **plan** command is used to generate the upgrade plan; the result will be
printed on STDOUT.

Plan for the whole cloud
------------------------

To generate a plan for the entire OpenStack cloud, including both the **control-plane** and the
**data-plane**, use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan

> .. terminal::

Reviewer: nit: it would be great saying this is an example output.

        Remaining Data Plane principal(s) upgrade plan
            Upgrade plan for 'ceph-osd' to 'victoria'
                Verify that all 'nova-compute' units had been upgraded
                Upgrade software packages of 'ceph-osd' from the current APT repositories
                    Upgrade software packages on unit 'ceph-osd/0'
                Change charm config of 'ceph-osd' 'source' to 'cloud:focal-victoria'
                Wait for up to 300s for app 'ceph-osd' to reach the idle state
                Verify that the workload of 'ceph-osd' has been upgraded on units: ceph-osd/0
        Data Plane subordinate(s) upgrade plan
            Upgrade plan for 'ovn-chassis' to 'victoria'
                Refresh 'ovn-chassis' to the latest revision of '22.03/stable'

Plan for the control-plane
--------------------------

To generate a plan targeting the **control-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan control-plane

Plan for the data-plane
-----------------------

To generate a plan targeting the **data-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan data-plane

**Note:** It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before

> being able to generate the plan for **data-plane**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
being able to generate a plan for the **data-plane**.
```

Plan for the hypervisors
------------------------

To generate a plan targeting just the **hypervisors** use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan hypervisors

> It's also possible to target for specific **availability-zones** or **machines**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also possible to target for specific Juju **availability-zones** or **machines**:
```

.. code:: bash

    # plan for just empty hypervisors in machines 0 and 1
    cou plan hypervisors --machine "0, 1"

    # plan for all empty hypervisors that are into zone-1
    cou plan hypervisors --availability-zone=zone-1

**Note:**:
- Those specific filters are mutually exclusive, meaning that it's not possible

> to use then together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use them together.
```

- Since **hypervisors** comprise a subset of **data-plane** components, it is
also necessary to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before

> being able to generate **hypervisors** plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
being able to generate a plan for the **hypervisors**.
```

Plan for non-empty hypervisors
------------------------------

> By default, COU will skip from the planning hypervisors that have VMs running. If it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, COU will skip planning for hypervisors that have VMs running. If it's
```

> necessary to also include then, use the `--force` command. For example:

Reviewer: I think the default behavior should be mentioned in data-plane and hypervisors sections and point to this section about the usage of `--force`

        Remaining Data Plane principal(s) upgrade plan
            Upgrade plan for 'ceph-osd' to 'victoria'
                Verify that all 'nova-compute' units had been upgraded
                Upgrade software packages of 'ceph-osd' from the current APT repositories
                    Upgrade software packages on unit 'ceph-osd/0'
                Change charm config of 'ceph-osd' 'source' to 'cloud:focal-victoria'
                Wait for up to 300s for app 'ceph-osd' to reach the idle state
                Verify that the workload of 'ceph-osd' has been upgraded on units: ceph-osd/0
        Data Plane subordinate(s) upgrade plan
            Upgrade plan for 'ovn-chassis' to 'victoria'
                Refresh 'ovn-chassis' to the latest revision of '22.03/stable'

Plan for the control-plane
--------------------------

To generate a plan targeting the **control-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan control-plane

Plan for the data-plane
-----------------------

To generate a plan targeting the **data-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan data-plane

**Note:**

> - It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before being able to

Reviewer: An empty line is needed before the list items, otherwise they are not correctly formatted. There are a few places that also need to have this changed.

generate a plan for the **data-plane**.
- By default, this command will skip hypervisors from the planning that have VMs running. See the
`Plan for non-empty hypervisors`_ section to include them.

Plan for the hypervisors
------------------------

To generate a plan targeting just the **hypervisors** use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan hypervisors

It's also possible to target for specific Juju **availability-zones** or **machines**:

.. code:: bash

    # plan for just empty hypervisors in machines 0 and 1
    cou plan hypervisors --machine "0, 1"

    # plan for all empty hypervisors that are into zone-1
    cou plan hypervisors --availability-zone=zone-1

> **Note:**:

Reviewer: Duplicated colons:
```suggestion
**Note:**
```

                Verify that all 'nova-compute' units had been upgraded
                Upgrade software packages of 'ceph-osd' from the current APT repositories
                    Upgrade software packages on unit 'ceph-osd/0'
                Change charm config of 'ceph-osd' 'source' to 'cloud:focal-victoria'
                Wait for up to 300s for app 'ceph-osd' to reach the idle state
                Verify that the workload of 'ceph-osd' has been upgraded on units: ceph-osd/0
        Data Plane subordinate(s) upgrade plan
            Upgrade plan for 'ovn-chassis' to 'victoria'
                Refresh 'ovn-chassis' to the latest revision of '22.03/stable'

Plan for the control-plane
--------------------------

To generate a plan targeting the **control-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan control-plane

Plan for the data-plane
-----------------------

To generate a plan targeting the **data-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan data-plane

**Note:**

- It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before being able to
  generate a plan for the **data-plane**.

> - By default, this command will skip hypervisors that have VMs running from the planning. See the

Reviewer 2: I will not say that those hypervisors are just skipped, but maybe something like `will find all hypervisors with VMs running on it and skipe them with warning message for user to know`

                        ├── Resume the unit: 'nova-compute/0'
                        Enable nova-compute scheduler from unit: 'nova-compute/0'
                Wait for up to 1800s for model 'test_model' to reach the idle state
                Verify that the workload of 'nova-compute' has been upgraded on units: nova-compute/0
        Remaining Data Plane principal(s) upgrade plan
            Upgrade plan for 'ceph-osd' to 'victoria'
                Verify that all 'nova-compute' units had been upgraded
                Upgrade software packages of 'ceph-osd' from the current APT repositories
                    Upgrade software packages on unit 'ceph-osd/0'
                Change charm config of 'ceph-osd' 'source' to 'cloud:focal-victoria'
                Wait for up to 300s for app 'ceph-osd' to reach the idle state
                Verify that the workload of 'ceph-osd' has been upgraded on units: ceph-osd/0
        Data Plane subordinate(s) upgrade plan
            Upgrade plan for 'ovn-chassis' to 'victoria'
                Refresh 'ovn-chassis' to the latest revision of '22.03/stable'

Plan for the control-plane
--------------------------

> To generate a plan targeting the **control-plane** applications use:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To generate a plan targeting only the **control-plane** applications use:
```

.. code:: bash

    cou plan control-plane

Plan for the data-plane
-----------------------

> To generate a plan targeting the **data-plane** applications use:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To generate a plan targeting only the **data-plane** applications use:
```

.. code:: bash

    cou plan data-plane

**Note:**

- It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before being able to
  generate a plan for the **data-plane**.
- By default, if non-empty hypervisor are identified, they are going to be excluded from the

>   planning and a warning message will show. See the `Plan for non-empty hypervisors`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  planning and a warning message will be shown. See the `Plan for non-empty hypervisors`_
```

  section for instructions on how to include them.

Plan for the hypervisors
------------------------

To generate a plan targeting just the **hypervisors** use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan hypervisors

> It's also possible to target for specific Juju **availability-zones** or **machines**:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's also possible to target specific Juju **availability-zones** or **machines**:
```

.. code:: bash

>     # plan for just empty hypervisors on machines 0 and 1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # plan for hypervisors with machine ID 0 and 1 (unless they're hosting VMs)
```

    cou plan hypervisors --machine "0, 1"

    # plan for all empty hypervisors that are into zone-1
    cou plan hypervisors --availability-zone=zone-1

**Note:**

- Those specific filters are mutually exclusive, meaning that it's not possible
  to use them together.

> - Since **hypervisors** comprise a subset of **data-plane** components, it is
>   also necessary to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
>   the **hypervisors** can be upgraded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Since **hypervisors** are part of the **data-plane**, they won't be upgraded unless the
  **control-plane** has already been upgraded.
```

- By default, if non-empty hypervisor are identified, they are going to be excluded from the

>   planning and a warning message will show. See the `Plan for non-empty hypervisors`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  planning and a warning message will be shown. See the `Plan for non-empty hypervisors`_
```

  section for instructions on how to include them.

Plan for non-empty hypervisors
------------------------------

> If it's necessary to plan for non-empty hypervisors, use the `--force` command. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If it's necessary to plan for non-empty hypervisors, use the `--force` option. For example:
```

.. code:: bash

>     # plan for data-plane applications using all hypervisors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # plan for all data-plane applications, including hypervisors currently running instances
```

    cou plan data-plane --force

    # plan for all hypervisors
    cou plan hypervisors --force

>     # plan for hypervisors from machines 0 and 1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # plan for hypervisor machines 0 and 1, even if hosting running instances
```

    cou plan data-plane

**Note:**
- It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before being able to
generate a plan for the **data-plane**.

> - By default, this command will skip hypervisors from the planning that have VMs running. See the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, this command will skip hypervisors that have VMs running from the planning. See the
```

> `Plan for non-empty hypervisors`_ section to include them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Plan for non-empty hypervisors`_ section for instructions on how to include them..
```

**Note:**:
- Those specific filters are mutually exclusive, meaning that it's not possible
to use them together.
- Since **hypervisors** comprise a subset of **data-plane** components, it is
also necessary to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
being able to generate a plan for the **hypervisors**.

> - By default, this command will skip hypervisors from the planning that have VMs running. See the

Reviewer: Same as above
